Falcon blog post (#1174)
huggingface/blog: falcon.md

Training 10B+ sized models can be technically and computationally challenging. In this section we look at the tools available in the Hugging Face ecosystem to efficiently train extremely large models on simple hardware and show how to fine-tune the Falcon-7b on a single NVIDIA T4 (16GB - Google Colab)..

Let's see how we can train Falcon on the [Guanaco dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/timdettmers/openassistant-guanaco) a filtered subset of the [Open Assistant dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/OpenAssistant/oasst1). With the [PEFT library](https://github.com/huggingface/peft) we can use the recent [QLoRA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14314) approach to fine-tune adapters that are placed on top of the frozen 4-bit model. You can learn more about the integration of 4-bit quantized models [in this blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes).

Only a tiny fraction of the model is trainable when using Low Rank Adapters (LoRA) such that the number of learned parameters as well as the size of the trained artifact is dramatically reduced. As shown in the screenshot below, the saved model has only 65MB for the 7B parameters model (15GB in float16).

> ![repo-screenshot.png]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ![repo-screenshot.png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/147_falcon/adapter-screenshot.png) |
|:--:|
| <b>The final repository has only 65MB of weights - compared to the original model that has approximately 15GB in half precision </b>|
```

We fine-tuned the two variants of Falcon model (7B and 40B) on the Guanaco dataset. For the 7b model, we fine-tuned the model on a single NVIDIA-T4 16GB and we fine-tuned the 40B model on a single NVIDIA A100 80GB. We used 4bit quantized base models and QLoRA method, as well as [the recent `SFTTrainer` from TRL library.](https://huggingface.co/docs/trl/main/en/sft_trainer) 

The full script to reproduce our experiments is available [here](https://gist.github.com/pacman100/1731b41f7a90a87b457e8c5415ff1c14), but only few lines of code are required to quickly run the `SFTTrainer`

```python
from datasets import load_dataset
from trl import SFTTrainer

dataset = load_dataset("imdb", split="train")

trainer = SFTTrainer(
    "facebook/opt-350m",
    train_dataset=dataset,
    dataset_text_field="text",
    max_seq_length=512,
)
trainer.train()
```

> Check out the original qlora repository: https://github.com/artidoro/qlora/blob/main/qlora.py for further work about evaluating the trained models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the [original qlora repository](https://github.com/artidoro/qlora/) for further work about evaluating the trained models.
```

model_id = "tiiuae/falcon-40b-instruct"

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_id)
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    model_id,
    torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16,
    trust_remote_code=True,
    load_in_8bit=True,
    device_map="auto",
)

pipeline = transformers.pipeline(
    "text-generation",
    model=model,
    tokenizer=tokenizer,
)
```

Note, however, that mixed 8-bit inference will use `torch.float16` instead of `torch.bfloat16`, so make sure you test the results thoroughly.

If you have multiple cards and `accelerate` installed, you can take advantage of `device_map="auto"` to automatically distribute the model layers across various cards. It can even offload some layers to the CPU if necessary, but this will impact inference speed.

There's also the possibility to use [4-bit loading](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes) using the latest version of `bitsandbytes`, `transformers` and `accelerate`. In this case, the 40B model takes ~27 GB of RAM to run. Unfortunately, this is slightly more than the memory available in cards such as 3090 or 4090, but it's enough to run on 30 or 40 GB cards.

### Text Generation Inference

> ## Evaluation

Reviewer 2: cc @slippylolo in case I'm misrepresenting anything here :)

```suggestion
## Evaluation

So how good are the Falcon models? An in-depth evaluation from the Falcon authors will be released soon, so in the meantime we ran both the base and instruct models through our [open LLM benchmark](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HuggingFaceH4/open_llm_leaderboard). This benchmark measures both the reasoning capabilities of LLMs and their ability to provide truthful answers across the following domains:

* [AI2 Reasoning Challenge](https://allenai.org/data/arc) (ARC): Grade-school multiple choice science questions.
* [HellaSwag](https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.07830): Commonsense reasoning around everyday events.
* [MMLU](https://github.com/hendrycks/test): Multiple-choice questions in 57 subjects (professional & academic).
* [TruthfulQA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.07958): Tests the model’s ability to separate fact from an adversarially-selected set of incorrect statements.

The results show that the 40B base and instruct models are very strong, and currently rank 1st and 2nd on the [LLM leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HuggingFaceH4/open_llm_leaderboard) 🏆!

![leaderboard.png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/147_falcon/leaderboard.png)

As noted by [Thomas Wolf](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/thom-wolf_open-llm-leaderboard-a-hugging-face-space-activity-7070334210116329472-x6ek?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop), one surprisingly insight here is that the 40B models were pretrained on around half the compute needed for LLaMa 65B (2800 vs 6300 petaflop days), which suggests we haven't quite hit the limits of what's "optimal" for LLM pretraining.

For the 7B models, we see that the base model is better than `llama-7b` and edges out MosaicML's `mpt-7b` to become the current best pretrained LLM at this scale. A shortlist of popular models from the leaderboard is reproduced below for comparison:

| Model | Type | Average leaderboard score |
| :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [tiiuae/falcon-40b-instruct](https://huggingface.co/tiiuae/falcon-40b-instruct) | instruct | 63.2 |
| [tiiuae/falcon-40b](https://huggingface.co/tiiuae/falcon-40b) | base | 60.4 |
| [llama-65b](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/large-language-model-llama-meta-ai/) | base | 58.3 |
| [TheBloke/dromedary-65b-lora-HF](https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/dromedary-65b-lora-HF) | instruct | 57 |
| [stable-vicuna-13b](https://huggingface.co/CarperAI/stable-vicuna-13b-delta) | rlhf | 52.4 |
| [llama-13b](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/large-language-model-llama-meta-ai/) | base | 51.8 |
| [TheBloke/wizardLM-7B-HF](https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/wizardLM-7B-HF) | instruct | 50.1 |
| [tiiuae/falcon-7b](https://huggingface.co/tiiuae/falcon-7b) | base | 48.8 |
| [mosaicml/mpt-7b](https://huggingface.co/mosaicml/mpt-7b) | base | 48.6 |
| [tiiuae/falcon-7b-instruct](https://huggingface.co/tiiuae/falcon-7b-instruct) | instruct | 48.4 |
| [llama-7b](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/large-language-model-llama-meta-ai/) | base | 47.6 |

Although the open LLM leaderboard doesn't measure chat capabilities (where human evaluation is the gold standard), these preliminary results for the Falcon models are very encouraging!

Let's now take a look at how you can fine-tune your very own Falcon models - perhaps one of yours will end up on top of the leaderboard 🤗.
```

Since v0.8.2, Text Generation Inference supports Falcon 7b and 40b models natively without relying on the Transformers
"trust remote code" feature, allowing for airtight deployments and security audits. In addition, the custom Falcon 
implementation includes custom CUDA kernels to significantly decrease end-to-end latency.

| ![tgi-hfe-screenshot.png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/blob/main/blog/147_falcon/tgi-hfe.png) |
|:--:|
| <b>Inference Endpoints now supports Text Generation Inference. Deploy the Falcon 40B Instruct model easily on 1xA100 with Int-8 quantization</b>|

Text Generation Inference is now integrated inside Hugging Face's Inference Endpoints. To deploy a Falcon model, go to 
the [model page](https://huggingface.co/tiiuae/falcon-7b-instruct) and click on the 
[Deploy -> Inference Endpoints](https://ui.endpoints.huggingface.co/new?repository=tiiuae/falcon-7b-instruct) widget.

For 7B models, we advise you to select "GPU [medium] - 1x Nvidia A10G". 

For 40B models, you will need to deploy on "GPU [xlarge] - 1x Nvidia A100" and activate quantization: 

> Advanced configuration -> Serving Container -> Int-8 Quantization.

Reviewer 3: @philschmid, anything you would like to add?

Since v0.8.2, Text Generation Inference supports Falcon 7b and 40b models natively without relying on the Transformers
"trust remote code" feature, allowing for airtight deployments and security audits. In addition, the custom Falcon 
implementation includes custom CUDA kernels to significantly decrease end-to-end latency.

| ![tgi-hfe-screenshot.png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/blob/main/blog/147_falcon/tgi-hfe.png) |
|:--:|
| <b>Inference Endpoints now supports Text Generation Inference. Deploy the Falcon 40B Instruct model easily on 1xA100 with Int-8 quantization</b>|

Text Generation Inference is now integrated inside Hugging Face's Inference Endpoints. To deploy a Falcon model, go to 
the [model page](https://huggingface.co/tiiuae/falcon-7b-instruct) and click on the 
[Deploy -> Inference Endpoints](https://ui.endpoints.huggingface.co/new?repository=tiiuae/falcon-7b-instruct) widget.

For 7B models, we advise you to select "GPU [medium] - 1x Nvidia A10G". 

For 40B models, you will need to deploy on "GPU [xlarge] - 1x Nvidia A100" and activate quantization: 

> Advanced configuration -> Serving Container -> Int-8 Quantization.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Advanced configuration -> Serving Container -> Int-8 Quantization. _Note: You might need to request quota at via email to api-enterprise@huggingface.co_
```

| Model | License | Commercial use? | Pretraining length [tokens] | Pretraining compute [PF-days] | Leaderboard score | K,V-cache size for a 2.048 context |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| StableLM-Alpha-7B | CC-BY-SA-4.0 | ✅ | 1,500B | 700 | 38.3* | 800MB |
| LLaMA-7B | LLaMA license | ❌ | 1,000B | 500 | 47.6 | 1,100MB |
| MPT-7B | Apache 2.0 | ✅ | 1,000B | 500 | 48.6 | 1,100MB |
| Falcon-7B | Apache 2.0 | ✅ | 1,500B | 700 | 48.8 | 20MB |
| LLaMA-33B | LLaMA license | ❌ | 1,500B | 3200 | 56.9 | 3,300MB |
| LLaMA-65B | LLaMA license | ❌ | 1,500B | 6300 | 58.3 | 5,400MB |
| Falcon-40B | Apache 2.0 | ✅ | 1,000B | 2800 | 60.4 | 240MB |

**score from the base version not available, we report the tuned version instead.*

# Demo

You can easily try the Big Falcon Model (40 billion parameters!) in [this Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HuggingFaceH4/falcon-chat) or in the playground embedded below:

<script type="module" src="https://gradio.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/3.32.0/gradio.js"> </script>
<gradio-app space="HuggingFaceH4/falcon-chat"></gradio-app>

> Under the hood, this playground uses 🤗 `text-generation-inference` ([repo](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference)), a scalable Rust, Python, and gRPC server for fast & efficient text generation. It's the same technology that powers [HuggingChat](https://huggingface.co/chat/).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Under the hood, this playground uses [🤗 `text-generation-inference`](#text-generation-inference), a scalable Rust, Python, and gRPC server for fast & efficient text generation. It's the same technology that powers [HuggingChat](https://huggingface.co/chat/).
```

Maybe link to the section instead?

There's also the possibility to use [4-bit loading](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes) using the latest version of `bitsandbytes`, `transformers` and `accelerate`. In this case, the 40B model takes ~27 GB of RAM to run. Unfortunately, this is slightly more than the memory available in cards such as 3090 or 4090, but it's enough to run on 30 or 40 GB cards.

### Text Generation Inference

[Text Generation Inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference) is a production ready inference 
container developed by Hugging Face to enable easy deployment of large language models. 

Its main features are:

- Continuous batching
- Token streaming using Server-Sent Events (SSE)
- Tensor Parallelism for faster inference on multiple GPUs
- Optimized transformers code using custom CUDA kernels
- Production ready logging, monitoring and tracing with Prometheus and Open Telemetry

Since v0.8.2, Text Generation Inference supports Falcon 7b and 40b models natively without relying on the Transformers

> "trust remote code" feature, allowing for airtight deployments and security audits. In addition, the custom Falcon 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
"trust remote code" feature, allowing for airtight deployments and security audits. In addition, the Falcon 
```

There's a mention about "custom CUDA kernels" just below, sounded a bit redundant :)

implementation includes custom CUDA kernels to significantly decrease end-to-end latency.

> | ![tgi-hfe-screenshot.png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/blob/main/blog/147_falcon/tgi-hfe.png) |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| ![tgi-hfe-screenshot.png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/147_falcon/tgi-hfe.png) |
```

|:--:|
| <b>Inference Endpoints now supports Text Generation Inference. Deploy the Falcon 40B Instruct model easily on 1xA100 with Int-8 quantization</b>|

> Text Generation Inference is now integrated inside Hugging Face's Inference Endpoints. To deploy a Falcon model, go to 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Text Generation Inference is also integrated inside Hugging Face's Inference Endpoints. To deploy a Falcon model, go to 
```

the [model page](https://huggingface.co/tiiuae/falcon-7b-instruct) and click on the 
[Deploy -> Inference Endpoints](https://ui.endpoints.huggingface.co/new?repository=tiiuae/falcon-7b-instruct) widget.

For 7B models, we advise you to select "GPU [medium] - 1x Nvidia A10G". 

For 40B models, you will need to deploy on "GPU [xlarge] - 1x Nvidia A100" and activate quantization: 

> Advanced configuration -> Serving Container -> Int-8 Quantization. _Note: You might need to request quota at via email to api-enterprise@huggingface.co_

Reviewer 6: LGTM !

> Advanced configuration -> Serving Container -> Int-8 Quantization. _Note: You might need to request quota at via email to api-enterprise@huggingface.co_

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Advanced configuration -> Serving Container -> Int-8 Quantization. _Note: You might need to request a quota upgrade via email to api-enterprise@huggingface.co_
```

Let's now take a look at how you can fine-tune your very own Falcon models - perhaps one of yours will end up on top of the leaderboard 🤗.

## Fine-tuning with PEFT

Training 10B+ sized models can be technically and computationally challenging. In this section we look at the tools available in the Hugging Face ecosystem to efficiently train extremely large models on simple hardware and show how to fine-tune the Falcon-7b on a single NVIDIA T4 (16GB - Google Colab).

Let's see how we can train Falcon on the [Guanaco dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/timdettmers/openassistant-guanaco) a filtered subset of the [Open Assistant dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/OpenAssistant/oasst1). With the [PEFT library](https://github.com/huggingface/peft) we can use the recent [QLoRA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14314) approach to fine-tune adapters that are placed on top of the frozen 4-bit model. You can learn more about the integration of 4-bit quantized models [in this blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes).

> Only a tiny fraction of the model is trainable when using Low Rank Adapters (LoRA) such that the number of learned parameters as well as the size of the trained artifact is dramatically reduced. As shown in the screenshot below, the saved model has only 65MB for the 7B parameters model (15GB in float16).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Because just a tiny fraction of the model is trainable when using Low Rank Adapters (LoRA), both the number of learned parameters and the size of the trained artifact are dramatically reduced. As shown in the screenshot below, the saved model has only 65MB for the 7B parameters model (15GB in float16).
```

| ![repo-screenshot.png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/147_falcon/adapter-screenshot.png) |
|:--:|
| <b>The final repository has only 65MB of weights - compared to the original model that has approximately 15GB in half precision </b>|

> More specifically, after selecting the target modules to adapt (in practice the query / key layers of the attention module), little trainable linear layers are attached close to these modules as illustrated below). The hidden states produced by these modules are then added to the original states to get the final hidden state.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
More specifically, after selecting the target modules to adapt (in practice the query / key layers of the attention module), small trainable linear layers are attached close to these modules as illustrated below). The hidden states produced by the adapters are then added to the original states to get the final hidden state.
```

| ![lora-gif](https://huggingface.co/datasets/trl-internal-testing/example-images/resolve/main/blog/133_trl_peft/lora-animated.gif) |
|:--:|
| <b>The output activations original (frozen) pretrained weights (left) are augmented by a low rank adapter comprised of weight matrics A and B (right). </b>|

> Once trained, there is no need to save the entire model as the base model is kept frozen. Also it is possible to keep the model in any arbitrary dtype (int8, fp4, fp16, etc.) as long as the output hidden states from these modules are casted to the same dtype as the ones from the adapters - this is the case for bitsandbytes modules (`Linear8bitLt` and `Linear4bit` ) that returns hidden states with the same dtype as the original unquantized module.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Once trained, there is no need to save the entire model as the base model was kept frozen. In addition, it is possible to keep the model in any arbitrary dtype (int8, fp4, fp16, etc.) as long as the output hidden states from these modules are casted to the same dtype as the ones from the adapters - this is the case for bitsandbytes modules (`Linear8bitLt` and `Linear4bit` ) that return hidden states with the same dtype as the original unquantized module.
```

> We fine-tuned the two variants of Falcon model (7B and 40B) on the Guanaco dataset. For the 7b model, we fine-tuned the model on a single NVIDIA-T4 16GB and we fine-tuned the 40B model on a single NVIDIA A100 80GB. We used 4bit quantized base models and QLoRA method, as well as [the recent `SFTTrainer` from TRL library.](https://huggingface.co/docs/trl/main/en/sft_trainer) 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We fine-tuned the two variants of the Falcon models (7B and 40B) on the Guanaco dataset. We fine-tuned the 7B model on a single NVIDIA-T4 16GB, and the 40B model on a single NVIDIA A100 80GB. We used 4bit quantized base models and the QLoRA method, as well as [the recent `SFTTrainer` from the TRL library.](https://huggingface.co/docs/trl/main/en/sft_trainer) 
```

> The full script to reproduce our experiments using PEFT is available [here](https://gist.github.com/pacman100/1731b41f7a90a87b457e8c5415ff1c14), but only few lines of code are required to quickly run the `SFTTrainer` (without PEFT for simplicity):

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The full script to reproduce our experiments using PEFT is available [here](https://gist.github.com/pacman100/1731b41f7a90a87b457e8c5415ff1c14), but only a few lines of code are required to quickly run the `SFTTrainer` (without PEFT for simplicity):
```

```python
from datasets import load_dataset
from trl import SFTTrainer
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM

dataset = load_dataset("imdb", split="train")

model_id = "tiiuae/falcon-7b"

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_id)
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(model_id, trust_remote_code=True)

trainer = SFTTrainer(
    model,
    tokenizer=tokenizer
    train_dataset=dataset,
    dataset_text_field="text",
    max_seq_length=512,
)
trainer.train()
```

> Check out the [original qlora repository](https://github.com/artidoro/qlora/) for further work about evaluating the trained models.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Check out the [original qlora repository](https://github.com/artidoro/qlora/) for additional details about evaluating the trained models.
```

Another interesting feature of the Falcon models is their use of [**multiquery attention**](https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.02150). The vanilla multihead attention scheme has one query, key, and value per head; multiquery instead shares one key and value across all heads.

| ![mqa](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/147_falcon/multi-query-attention.png) |
|:--:|

> | <b>Mutli-Query Attention shares keys and value embeddings across attention heads. Courtesy Harm de Vries. </b>|

Reviewer 2: turbo nit:
```suggestion
| <b>Multi-Query Attention shares keys and value embeddings across attention heads. Courtesy Harm de Vries. </b>|
```

| Model | License | Commercial use? | Pretraining length [tokens] | Pretraining compute [PF-days] | Leaderboard score | K,V-cache size for a 2.048 context |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| StableLM-Alpha-7B | CC-BY-SA-4.0 | ✅ | 1,500B | 700 | 38.3* | 800MB |
| LLaMA-7B | LLaMA license | ❌ | 1,000B | 500 | 47.6 | 1,100MB |
| MPT-7B | Apache 2.0 | ✅ | 1,000B | 500 | 48.6 | 1,100MB |
| Falcon-7B | Apache 2.0 | ✅ | 1,500B | 700 | 48.8 | 20MB |
| LLaMA-33B | LLaMA license | ❌ | 1,500B | 3200 | 56.9 | 3,300MB |
| LLaMA-65B | LLaMA license | ❌ | 1,500B | 6300 | 58.3 | 5,400MB |
| Falcon-40B | Apache 2.0 | ✅ | 1,000B | 2800 | 60.4 | 240MB |

**score from the base version not available, we report the tuned version instead.*

# Demo

You can easily try the Big Falcon Model (40 billion parameters!) in [this Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HuggingFaceH4/falcon-chat) or in the playground embedded below:

<script type="module" src="https://gradio.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/3.32.0/gradio.js"> </script>

> <gradio-app space="HuggingFaceH4/falcon-chat"></gradio-app>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<gradio-app space="HuggingFaceH4/falcon-chat-demo-for-blog"></gradio-app>
```

> Under the hood, this playground uses 🤗 `text-generation-inference` ([repo](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference)), a scalable Rust, Python, and gRPC server for fast & efficient text generation. It's the same technology that powers [HuggingChat](https://huggingface.co/chat/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under the hood, this playground uses Hugging Face's [Text Generation Inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference)), a scalable Rust, Python, and gRPC server for fast & efficient text generation. It's the same technology that powers [HuggingChat](https://huggingface.co/chat/).
```

### Text Generation Inference

[Text Generation Inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference) is a production ready inference 
container developed by Hugging Face to enable easy deployment of large language models. 

Its main features are:

- Continuous batching
- Token streaming using Server-Sent Events (SSE)
- Tensor Parallelism for faster inference on multiple GPUs
- Optimized transformers code using custom CUDA kernels
- Production ready logging, monitoring and tracing with Prometheus and Open Telemetry

Since v0.8.2, Text Generation Inference supports Falcon 7b and 40b models natively without relying on the Transformers
"trust remote code" feature, allowing for airtight deployments and security audits. In addition, the custom Falcon 
implementation includes custom CUDA kernels to significantly decrease end-to-end latency.

| ![tgi-hfe-screenshot.png](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/147_falcon/tgi-hfe.png) |
|:--:|
| <b>Inference Endpoints now supports Text Generation Inference. Deploy the Falcon 40B Instruct model easily on 1xA100 with Int-8 quantization</b>|

> Text Generation Inference is now integrated inside Hugging Face's Inference Endpoints. To deploy a Falcon model, go to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Text Generation Inference is now integrated inside Hugging Face's [Inference Endpoints](https://huggingface.co/inference-endpoints). To deploy a Falcon model, go to 
```

| [llama-13b](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/large-language-model-llama-meta-ai/) | base | 51.8 |
| [TheBloke/wizardLM-7B-HF](https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/wizardLM-7B-HF) | instruct | 50.1 |
| [tiiuae/falcon-7b](https://huggingface.co/tiiuae/falcon-7b) | base | 48.8 |
| [mosaicml/mpt-7b](https://huggingface.co/mosaicml/mpt-7b) | base | 48.6 |
| [tiiuae/falcon-7b-instruct](https://huggingface.co/tiiuae/falcon-7b-instruct) | instruct | 48.4 |
| [llama-7b](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/large-language-model-llama-meta-ai/) | base | 47.6 |

Although the open LLM leaderboard doesn't measure chat capabilities (where human evaluation is the gold standard), these preliminary results for the Falcon models are very encouraging!

Let's now take a look at how you can fine-tune your very own Falcon models - perhaps one of yours will end up on top of the leaderboard 🤗.

## Fine-tuning with PEFT

Training 10B+ sized models can be technically and computationally challenging. In this section we look at the tools available in the Hugging Face ecosystem to efficiently train extremely large models on simple hardware and show how to fine-tune the Falcon-7b on a single NVIDIA T4 (16GB - Google Colab).

> Let's see how we can train Falcon on the [Guanaco dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/timdettmers/openassistant-guanaco) a filtered subset of the [Open Assistant dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/OpenAssistant/oasst1). With the [PEFT library](https://github.com/huggingface/peft) we can use the recent [QLoRA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14314) approach to fine-tune adapters that are placed on top of the frozen 4-bit model. You can learn more about the integration of 4-bit quantized models [in this blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's see how we can train Falcon on the [Guanaco dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/timdettmers/openassistant-guanaco) a high-quality subset of the [Open Assistant dataset](https://huggingface.co/datasets/OpenAssistant/oasst1) consisting of around 10,000 dialogues. With the [PEFT library](https://github.com/huggingface/peft) we can use the recent [QLoRA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14314) approach to fine-tune adapters that are placed on top of the frozen 4-bit model. You can learn more about the integration of 4-bit quantized models [in this blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes).
```
